hello YouTube this is going to be a
video on my snapping turtle tank and the
stand the tank is a 40 gallon reptile
aquarium it's not as tall as a regular
fish aquarium the stand is custom-built
by me I guess this video is going to be
more in depth about the stand to give
people an idea of what I did so they can
have some ideas on how to build their
own I got online and I was looking at
stands for this tank and the prices were
astronomical
eight nine hundred dollars I thought
that was ridiculous I went to the
hardware store and I bought some lumber
and built my own stand and I think it's
better than anything that I could buy
what I did I got some sheets of plywood
and some studs and some hardware and
I'll show you what I did first like I
said I got some plywood and that made
the front and the sides hardware I got
hinges you can get any kind of hinges
you'd like
I got handles and screws yeah now I'm
not a master carpenter here if any
carpenters look at this and have
anything to say please keep your
negative comments to yourself I never
said I'm a master carpenter I just built
what works for me the way I built this
stand as you can see I used thin plywood
they tried to sell me the expensive
plywood at Home Depot the way I designed
this the stand the frame itself is what
holds the tank up basically I built a
box frame out of studs you can build it
as tall as you want I think I did mine
like 36 inches or something
so I just built a box out of studs and
that's what the tank sits on the studs
inside or as as wide as the tank the
same dimensions the thickness the
wideness and the length and then what I
did from there was put these plywood
sheets on around the frame so that way
but I made it a little taller here and
that way the tank sits down into this
plywood and it hides the bottom plastic
black strip that you can see up top so
the tank sits down in there then I
stained it I didn't put any feet on it
I've got it sitting on carpet you can
you know buy feet to put on air and make
your own feet I put these doors on there
and I've got plenty of room for storage
down here I bought all these corner
pieces these braces after I got
everything together it seemed like it
really didn't need it but I bought them
all anyway so I put them all in place
they're everywhere all around every
corner
so I mean I got on top of this thing I
weigh over 300 pounds and this thing
didn't budge so I knew it was good
enough for the tank with a little bit of
water I was going to put in it as for
the tank setup I've got the light on a
timer
nine o'clock in the morning light turns
on nine o'clock at night light turns off
twelve hour rotation is good what I've
got here is a about a two year old - 2
year old snapping turtle I got a little
heater in there that heats a tank pretty
well
it says it's for like a twenty to forty
gallon
so and I don't even have it full of
water I've got this little reptile
filter it takes two filters um I think
it gets clogged up pretty quickly but it
is what it is I went down to the quarry
that's owned by the company that I
worked for and I got a bunch of stones
and I made like a little like a little
Hut that he can get in and he gets in
that thing at night and he sticks his
head out and he loves that he loves that
little area he gets in there I got like
some shrubbery on top and stuff I put a
backdrop in there I got a cage on the
top because we have some cats in this
house and they like to jump on top
excuse me so I put this cage on the top
and then I'm just using you know like a
regular aquarium light with a UV light
bulb in there I don't even know what
wattage or whatever all that is but it
works good and there's a snapping turtle
his name's Bowser I've had him since he
was the size of a quarter
so there's the tank there's the tank
stand for my snapping turtle and thank
you very much everybody
have a good day please comment and rate
thank you